Translator: Maurício Kakuei Tanaka
Reviewer: David DeRuwe
So, today, I want to start by going back,
to be specific, about 2,000 years.
Now, I want you to picture ancient Rome.
What images come to mind?
The gladiators, Colosseum, Julius Caesar?
Or maybe armies wearing scale mail,
perhaps a bit like this.
Now, I want to change your focus
to a modern-day oncology unit,
specifically women who are undergoing
radiotherapy breast cancer treatment.
Can you see a connection?
Now, there's nothing obvious;
I can grant you that,
but today I would like to talk to you
about two of my major science projects,
both of which were inspired by the past:
scale mail and ancient
Egyptian water clocks,
to help solve two very different problems.
I'm 16 years old, and I love
science and engineering,
in case you hadn't guessed
from the T-shirt.
As a scientist, I am,
along with so many others,
constantly thinking about
where we'll be in five years,
in 10 years, even in 50 years' time,
the question which constantly drives
our curiosity and our imagination
to help solve global problems
with simple answers.
Whether this be clean energy or health,
there are major concerns
facing our planet today.
Now, not only is our generation
going to inherit these problems,
but we're also creating
new ones for ourselves.
But I believe that when it comes
to coming up with solutions,
we can look to the past.
We can use the past to change the future,
taking things that have been used before
and repurposing them in a different way.
Now, if you've ever gone
to the dentist for an X-ray,
you'll be familiar with this scene:
the dentist comes into the room,
they place a lead apron
over the top of you
whilst they quickly jump out,
and you get your X-ray.
Well, this is a similar type shield
that might be used
if you're undergoing radiotherapy
breast cancer treatment,
but it isn't failsafe.
The lead that they use is toxic,
it costs a lot of money,
and it costs a lot of time
for the centers,
which is why they tend
to opt out of this decision.
However, this means that the women
who are undergoing this treatment
will receive harmful unwanted radiation
to their contralateral breast,
which is just a fancy word
for the breast that's not being treated,
and this is an unwanted byproduct
of being free of cancer.
Studies have shown that one in 14 women
who undergo this treatment
will develop a second primary cancer
in this breast later in their lifetime,
which is where my idea
for scale mail comes in,
something which I've learned about
in movies and museums.
Could this ancient shielding technique
be more effective
than what we're using today?
Now, some early forms of scale mail
were documented by the Chinese,
who used them to protect
their horses during battle.
The Japanese samurai
used to beat individual leaves,
replicating that of fish scales,
[which] was also found
in Roman and Persian armies
and is also found on this very cute
animal called the pangolin,
which is very effective for protection.
So this is my device
called the SMART armor,
which stands for "Scale Mail Armor
for Radiation Therapy."
So I made this
by meticulously and painfully interweaving
these individual scales together,
using pliers and jump rings
for what felt like an eternity.
So, to test my device,
I used what we would consider
a typical breast cancer treatment.
And this was found
that I could reduce doses
to the contralateral breast by up to 80%,
reducing the radiation levels
to this breast by 80%.
Now, what makes this device different,
which you may have already noticed,
is not only the use of scale mail,
but also the use of copper.
Now, I found that copper
was 20% more effective
at the skin level than lead,
something that contradicts
global standards
that we should be using lead.
Now, I've performed all of my testing
at the Chris O'Brien Lifehouse,
and I'm overwhelmed and absolutely
ecstatic at the response.
It has approval from the Therapeutic
Goods Administration of Australia,
which means that it's ready
for clinical use.
I have a provisional patent on it,
so don't go thinking you can steal it.
And my paper is soon to be published
in the Journal of Applied Medical Physics,
which is based in North America.
Now, there's still, of course,
a lot of work to be done,
but through experimentation,
through curiosity,
and a bit of imagination,
this just shows how an ancient technology
can be refocused for future
scientific breakthrough.
The ancient curving,
conforming nature of this material
made it ideal for its new purpose,
potentially saving lives.
Now, I'd like to change
your focus a bit to a problem
where I've also focused my thinking:
solar panels,
which are expensive to buy,
difficult to install,
and thus become almost impractical
when helping to solve the developing
world's great energy crisis.
Many millions of dollars and thousands
of researchers across the world
are looking to improve solar panel
efficiency by one or two percent.
I discovered that I could improve
a solar panel's power output by up to 72%
through the combination
of ancient technology
and the modern solar panels.
Now, on a different note for a second,
71% of our world is covered in water;
96.5% of this is found in the oceans.
Now, of all of this water
that covers our planet,
only one percent is able to be drunk,
and only one percent
holds the basic properties
needed to make it consumable.
Now, I want you guys to remember this
because this becomes important
a little bit later.
But for centuries, humans have used water
to scientifically aid our existence.
In 1500 BC, the ancient Egyptians
created the first clock,
which was a water clock
where they used a water-dripping vessel
which was calibrated
against the movements of the Sun
to tell the time.
Now, interestingly enough,
it was the most accurate time measurement
until the 17th century,
when the pendulum clock was invented.
Water has also been used
to further exemplify beauty
and magnify what we know
as beautiful and as nature.
So my idea was to apply this ancient
water-dropping technique to solar panels
in order to make a solar panel
mechanically track the Sun.
It's called "The Solar System."
Now, this water-drip system works
by matching the water tanks
on one side of the solar panel
to the force and strength
applied by a spring system
on the other side.
Now, this means that I'm able
to control the drip amount
and slowly rotate the panel
throughout the day,
matching the path of the Sun.
The Solar System could be an exciting tool
for developing communities
as it's able to provide
both water and power
by filtering the water
once it comes out
of this water-drip system.
We can provide developing communities
with a safe access, a safe reliable
water source and power.
A 72% increase in power output shows you
how ancient technology can be refocused,
and how we can bring
the past into the future.
When Thomas Edison was asked,
"How did it feel to fail countless times?"
he replied,
"I didn't fail 1,000 times.
The light bulb was an invention
with 1,000 steps."
Now, I know that I'm going to fail,
and I'm going to be
disappointed constantly,
but when this happens, it just means
that you need to get up,
it means that you need to try harder,
and it means that you need
to try something different.
We need to start experimenting
with a childlike
curiosity and imagination,
which can be inspired by the past.
And don't let anyone tell you
that your age matters.
Don't let anyone tell you
that your gender matters.
Anyone can find simple solutions
to global problems.
The answers are out there.
Someone just needs to go
and rediscover them.
Start by using the past
to change the future.
Thank you.
(Cheers) (Applause)